## FAQ

### 1. How to run this code on my custom dataset?

PuzzleFusion++ performs strongly even when only the denoiser is used. The fastest way to evaluate the performance of PuzzleFusion++ on your custom dataset is to train and test using only the denoiser.

You can either train the denoiser from scratch or finetune it based on our pre-trained weights for your custom dataset. Then, use `scripts/inference_denoiser_only.sh` to test the performance of the denoiser alone.

The denoiser only has serveral benefits:
1. Jigsaw assumes no fragments are missing. If your dataset has missing fragments, you may not be able to use Jigsaw_matching to generate reasonable matching data.
2. The code is straightforward and easy to debug.
3. Inference time can be faster. The denoiser-only can process batches during inference.

### 2. How to run the denoiser + verifier (full model) on my custom dataset? Do I need to generate verifier data and retrain the verifier?

As mentioned earlier, you can either retrained or finetune the denoiser. Then, train your data on Jigsaw first and generate matching data from our Jigsaw_matching. Finally, you can use the pre-trained verifier weights (see reason below) and test the full model performance.

Ideally, the verifier does not need retraining. The verifier data consists of the Euclidean distances of matching points (generated by Jigsaw matching), which are used to construct a normalized histogram with six bins. The verifier only do a simple histogram classification. The matching data is the important one.
